Hello World

So I have begun my journey into Data Science. I have been reading many articles online, and many of them mention making a Data Science Portfolio. Yes, it is that important that I capitalized it. So important and fascinating, that I have decided to see what it is all about. I am starting with a clean slate, as if I have not learned anything before. Heads up, I have my B.S. in mathematics from UT Austin. Time to change to world :D.


The Theory of Traffic

The most efficient way to drive is to never press the brake. Everytime the brake is press it is just integrating the waste of fuel. This kills our bank account and enviroment that surrounds us. That is to say that traffic must never slow down. I am mainly referring about on the highway, a road with no stop lights. It seems that most of the stopping comes from the reduction of lanes on the highway, however if everyone had the patience to drive a little slower we could all still be moving and minimize our brake time.

I looked more into Data Science today, and found out more of what a data scientist does. It seems a prime example of a data scientist is the person who makes the recommended "becuase you liked this you will like this" of sort. For example, if you are on an online website buying skinny jeans, there might be a side tab referring you to other types of skinny jeans. I'm sure there are amounts of data one can use to find the algorithm that works, but it is the algorithm that makes the data scientist powerful. It is the intellectual curiosity that fuels his drive. All of which fuel my mind. A prime example is the theory of traffic. Perhaps one day I'll be able to find a simple algorithm that can solve traffic, or maybe just minimize our brake time. Nevertheless, I will be doing O.S.S. to become closer to my goal to find these algorithms.

Matlab

So today, I have installed Matlab. It turned out to take a little more time then expected. However, after relogging in and out on my matlab account it seem to connect to the installer. Looks like it is time to learn a new platform. 

Vectors

The journey of vectors has begun! The fascinating thing about vectors is that they can be placed in any location, and it is the direction and in what speed it is traveling. Most people denote column vectors in many deminsions. I can't help but to think these are like stats on a video game. For example, if you had a column vector with four entries it can be equivalent to the characters attack, dexterity, speed, defence. And based on these stats they can be increased with gear or leveling up. Maybe even temporarily by spells! Nonetheless, vectors seem like it is good at collecting information for programming. I am excited to see where this is headed in data science!

A Mini Video Game

Thinking more on the vector topic, it is interesting to see what stats one would put in a video game. I think if we were to have a simple 2 deminsional video game I would go with a base of 5 stats. We can call the vector the character the stats belong to. For example, if we had a character named Ivy, we can let Ivy_Stats be a vector. We could also let the elements represent Ivy_Stats = [Health, Attack, Stregnth, Defence, Speed]. We can also note another variable, that is an integer, Ivy_Level = 1. As the character Ivy grows experience in the game Ivy can level up to level 2 and boom, Ivy's level will increase. We can chose Ivy's stats to increase with according to an "axpy" operation. However this is where things get interesting becuase there are beyond a million different ways to increase one's stats. Nevertheless, it is a starting point when trying to calculate damage, fighting, and anything else that might be affected by stats. We can also bring in gear into the picture. Gear will certainly increase the stats. 

Big Time, Big Data

So I have gathered a lot more information about my independent learning. It seems there are a lot of great resources out there. I am currently using OSS, however there are many others like Udacity and Data Camp. The end goal is to be able to compete on Kaggle. Listing them in order of pricing I will be doing OSS, Data Camp, and possibly Udacity. What I really like about Udacity is that is serious stuff. But it requires a serious price. Something I can take on when I have more free time. Nonetheless, I am still in it to win it. I will need to start by building my own data base and functions for my database. I will most likely end up chosing something like fantasy football, as it is worth some value to me.  

Coursera Week 1

I have started coursera data science specialization. I have also just recently found employement as a data analyst. It seems that everything is headed the direction I planned! I chose coursera because it seems very organized and straight to the point. I also feel that datacamp has similarities, however I will use datacamp as a refresher to everything I have forgotten. Week 1 was very exciting to see all of the tools. I didn't realize how powerful one can be using R. They also made the thinking proccess very straight forward, which for me is a must.

Coursera Week 2

So the journey continues. I find the Coursera program great since it teaches from the ground up. Learning about the terminal makes me feel twice as powerful as a laptop owner. I can't quite shoot out lightning bolts just yet, but come back in a couple of years and then we can talk magic.

Another One Bites the Dust

I have completed week 3. We have learned more about types of analysis and big data. Big data is constantly mentioned, and I would find it very interesting to work with a huge data base that uses parallel computing. I know most data sets don't need nearly this much data, but I would find the techniques used fascinating. This is discrete mathematics mixed with optimization at its finest.

Maintaining a Database

Working as a Data Analyst a few things have become valuable to me for a database. Some of these things are Accuracy, Efficiency, and Purpose. The accuracy cannot be acheived entirely without efficiency and without no purpose there is no need for the data. Efficiency comes down to pulling necessary information and getting rid of all the bs. It sounds easier than done alot of the time because of the number of people involved. Questions like what is actually needed, who should have admin access, and how should we format the information are questions that need to be answered and effectively communicated.

Running Tests as Matrices

So I have been verifying my accuracy by running tests on my data to make sure it passes certain flags. I realized that these flags can be matrices and each component, or in my case a license of information, contains a certain set of flags that can be defined as a matrix. Yes so there are only a finite number of elements, and we can catergorize each element as so. Then we can perform actoins on these sets and instead of just working with a single license we can work with many of the same type of license. Of course if there was a mistake along the way there will be much to pay, but with higher level education and understanding I think it is an efficiently flawless way to work.

The Power of Access

In school the main programming language I used was Python. I also heard many other students frequently used R in their stats classes. To me I was thinking that these were the powerful programs that was able to perform all of my fantasy data crunching tasks. Nope. Turns out from my experience so far corporations in Dallas, Tx run to microsoft office. It makes sense though, since it is pretty basic for those who do not program at all. However I also notice that these places run out of date databases. So I'm thinking its one of two cases: These companies need to get up-to-date technology and hire the right people to run the software or Microsoft office is King. I'm really beleiving the ladder, so I have been reading up on VBA. Nothing will stand in my way to understand the database. Nothing. One day I will be able to create my own database and regulate it as needed. Also if anyone else wants to touch my database I would hope they have the best in mind, for if there are any incorrect information it makes me look bad. 

Python is Powerful

So I was wrong. Python is actually really nice for databases. It is just a change of pace from Excel and Access. IMO I think that Python is better than Excel for a few reasons. the first reason I want to point out is that when working with Python one must choose what type of file they want to work with. For me the two files I was using was csv and txt files. By using these files I am able to store WAY much more information AND it computes faster once I have written the program. Also I prefer typing over clicking, so I feel that is more suitable for a work enviroment. Not even Access can keep up with txt and csv files. When I tried to append Access tables together I wasn't able to since it took too damn long. However whnever I ran the python program for csv files it took a few seconds. I then imported the file to access which also took only a few seconds. The main reason I am uploading these files is to update my database through Access, which is actually really awesome. It makes maintaining a database a breeze.

One Byte at a Time

So lately I have a goal to update my datebase with as close to 100% accuracy as possible. This means finding public files and comparing our database with ours. With another co-worker we talked alot about obstacles in the way of a young educated worker. The obstacles are different for everyone, but they should not change our motivation. Not only must we strive to improve and adapt, but we should use these obstacles as challenges. A wonderful person I knew in High School told me the key to success is Adapt, Evolve, and Innovate. That is precisely what I find myself doing by simply trying to complete the task of "updating a database", for there are many more obstacles than just technical ones.

Feliz Navidad!

Christmas just passed, and I can't help to think that Santa Clause has to have a little mathematician in him. That or maybe the elves know the mathematics behind wrapping all of the presents. Those darn elves have to wrap so many gifts for all the good boys and girls. So many gifts that if any of these gifts were to be wrapped with wasted paper over time it would accumulate to a very disgusting amount of wasted paper. Therefore in order for santa's workshop to run there has to be some sort of business operation involved. Also keeping track of where all the gifts go means they must also hire some sort of data analyst. I wonder if they are hiring.

Learning is a Steady GRIND

GRIND- Get Ready it's a New Day
Everyday, I spend my first hour learning. I feel that overtime it will accumulate to becoming a master in the field. Lately I have been reading books, namely Access Database by Steven Roman. It is a straight forward book and is written in logical terms, my favorite. I keep thinking about Predictive Analytics. Predictive Analytics can be used for so many different things, but for it to actually work in a shot in the dark. I suppose there has to be some theory that allows the mechanics to succeed within a givin error. Nonetheless I will probably head towards that direction for my next books. It seems that data can grow at a very high rate when parameters are brought in. For example, to find the data of the cost of a list of items in a grocery store is going to be different based on the year you pick. To keep track of these numbers then anticipate what these items will cost next year seems like it can be very useful for a business. I think it will open up doors to maximizing resources.
"... If you judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree, then it will live its whole life beleiving it is stupid" Einstein.
Also my personality type is INTJ-A, the Architect. 

The SQL Door is Open

So I typed my first bit of code of SQL. Okay so it wasn't legit SQL, instead Access SQL, but it is all the same. Right? I guess I shall find out more to come as time goes on. At first I thought SQL code on Access was a waste of time, until after the code I wrote actually couldn't be visualized on Design View. Yes, I am entering the blood and guts of the database. The three fundamentals I have seen so far from data analysts are: Data Architetcure, Data Manipulation, and Data Presentation. Or what I might be mistaking as equivalent occupations: Data Architect, Data Scientist, and Business Operation Analyst. It seems I might be able to grow in each of these paths, and I look forward to learning more in each field :D.
"Don't look back, don't look forward"

Minimalist Lifestyle
"If you're not growing, you're dying." Joshua Fields Millburn

Yesterday I went through a little emotional wave. Something just hit me. I realized that is too short. Before we know it everything around us will be gone. One by one each item and person will break or leave. Not entirely, but eventually. I also realized that it is not until one learns how to say goodbye can they fully appreciate every moment. It is the small depressions of goodbye that makes the hello so good. Then it made me realize how important are these objects that I own? Are they worth distracting myself over my relationships with everyone around me. All of these thoughts made me realize I need to get rid of anything in my way. I want excuses to get outside instead of storing things for myself. I want experiences with my friends while they are here, and understand that it will come down to a day where we part. Living in the moment every second. A Minimalist lifestyle is a bit extereme, but I am going to adopt a modern form of minimalist. I will still have a few posessions I splurge, but the main goal is to find out what really matters in my life, and find away to maximize the good things. 

